content/publications/index.md, before:

---
title: "Publications"
date: 2020-07-02T13:14:41+01:00
draft: false
---

Click [here](https://dblp2.uni-trier.de/pers/hd/m/Mulligan:Dominic_P=) for my DBLP entry and [here](https://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user=LI9Nv6UAAAAJ&hl=en) for my Google Scholar entry.

# Journals

- *A highly-available move operation for replicated trees.*
Martin Kleppmann, Dominic P. Mulligan, Victor Gomes, and Alastair Beresford.
**IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems**, volume 33, issue 7, pages 1711&ndash;1734, 2021.
[PDF](./kleppmann-highly-available-2021.pdf)
- *Permissive nominal terms and their unification: an infinite, coinfinite approach to nominal techniques.*
Gilles Dowek, Murdoch J. Gabbay, and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Logic Journal of the Interest Group in Pure Logic**, volume 18, issue 6, pages 769&ndash;822, 2011.
[PDF](./dowek-permissive-2011.pdf)
- *Curry-Howard for incomplete first-order logic derivations using one-and-a-half level terms.*
Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Journal of Information and Computation, volume 208**, issue 3, pages 230&ndash;258, 2010.
[PDF](./gabbay-one-2009.pdf)

# Conferences and workshops

- *A verification methodology for Arm Confidential Computing Architecture, from a secure specification to safe implementations*.
Anthony C. J. Fox, Gareth Stockwell, Shale Xiong, Hanno Becker, Dominic P. Mulligan, Gustavo Petri, and Nathan Chong.
**Accepted at OOPSLA/SPLASH**, 2023.
[PDF](./fox-verification-2023.pdf)
- *Scalable assurance via verifiable hardware-software contracts.*
Yao Hsiao, Dominic P. Mulligan, Nikos Nikoleris, Gustavo Petri, Caroline Trippel.
**Accepted at the 1st Workshop on Open-source Computer Architecture Research (OSCAR)**, 2022.
[PDF](./hsiao-scalable-2022.pdf)
- *The Supervisionary proof-checking kernel: or, a work-in-progress towards proof-generating code.*
Dominic P. Mulligan, Nick Spinale.
**Accepted at the 6th Workshop on Principles of Secure Compilation (PriSC)**, 2022.
[PDF](./mulligan-supervisionary-2022.pdf)
- *Synthesizing formal models of hardware from RTL for efficient verification of memory model implementations.*
Yao Hsiao, Dominic P. Mulligan, Nikos Nikoleris, Gustavo Petri, and Caroline Trippel.
**Accepted at the 54th IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO)**, 2021.
[PDF](./hsiao-synthesizing-2021.pdf)
- *Seeds of SEED: Confidential Computing---a brave new world (invited industry paper).*
Dominic P. Mulligan, Gustavo Petri, Nick Spinale, Gareth Stockwell, and Hugo J. M. Vincent.
**Accepted at the IEEE International Symposium on Secure and Private Execution Environment Design (SEED)**, 2021.
[PDF](./mulligan-confidential-2021.pdf)
- *Interleaving anomalies in collaborative text editors.*
Martin Kleppmann, Victor B. F. Gomes, Dominic P. Mulligan, and Alastair R. Beresford.
**Proceedings of the 6th Workshop on the Principles and Practice of Consistency for Distributed Data (PaPoC)**, 2019.
[PDF](./kleppmann-interleaving-2019.pdf)
- *Programming and proving with classical types.*
Cristina Matache, Victor B. F. Gomes, and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Proceedings of the 15th Asian Symposium on Programming Languages and Systems (APLAS)**, pages 215&ndash;234, 2017.
[PDF](./matache-programming-2017.pdf)
- *Verifying Strong Eventual Consitency in distributed systems.*
Victor B. F. Gomes, Martin Kleppmann, Dominic P. Mulligan, and Alastair R. Beresford.
**Proceedings of PACMPL/OOPSLA**, 109:1&ndash;109:28, 2017.
*Distinguished paper award.*
*Distinguished artefact award.*
[PDF](./gomes-verifying-2017.pdf)
- *The missing link: explaining ELF static linking, semantically.*
Stephen Kell, Dominic P. Mulligan, and Peter Sewell.
**Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN International Conference on Object Oriented Programming, Systems, Languages, and Applications (OOPSLA/SPLASH)**, pages 607&ndash;623, 2016.
[PDF](./kell-missing-2016.pdf)
- *An integrated concurrency and core-ISA architectural envelope definition, and test oracle, for IBM POWER multiprocessors.*
Kathryn Gray, Gabriel Kerneis, Dominic P. Mulligan, Christopher Pulte, Susmit Sarkar and Peter Sewell.
**Proceedings of the 48th Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO 48)**, pages 635&ndash;646, 2015.
[PDF](gray-integrated-2015.pdf)
- *Lem: reusable engineering of real world semantics.*
Dominic P. Mulligan, Scott Owens, Kathryn E. Gray, Tom Ridge, and Peter Sewell.
**Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Functional Programming (ICFP)**, pages 175&ndash;188, 2014.
[PDF](./mulligan-lem-2014.pdf)
- *Certified Complexity (CerCo).*
Roberto M. Amadio, Nicolas Ayache, Francois Bobot, Jaap P. Boender, Brian Campbell, Ilias Garnier, Antoine Madet, James McKinna, Dominic P. Mulligan, Mauro Piccolo, Randy Pollack, Yann Régis-Gianas, Claudio Sacerdoti Coen, Ian Stark, and Paolo Tranquilli. **Proceedings of the 3rd International Workshop on Foundational and Practical Aspects of Resource Analysis (FOPARA)**, pages 1&ndash;18, 2013.
[PDF](./amadio-certified-2013.pdf)
- *On the correctness of an assembler for the MCS-51 microprocessor.*
Dominic P. Mulligan and Claudio Sacerdoti Coen.
**Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Certified Proofs and Programs (CPP)**, pages 43&ndash;59, 2012.
[PDF](./mulligan-correctness-2012.pdf)
- *Nominal Henkin Semantics: simply typed lambda-calculus in Nominal Sets.*
Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Proceedings of the 6th International Workshop on Logical Frameworks and Meta-languages: Theory and Practice (LFMTP)**, pages 58&ndash;75, 2011.
[PDF](./gabbay-nominal-2011.pdf)
- *Universal algebra over lambda-terms and nominal terms: the connection in logic between nominal techniques and higher-order variables.*
Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Logical Frameworks and Meta-languages: Theory and Practice (LFMTP)**, pages 64&ndash;73, 2009.
[PDF](./gabbay-universal-2009.pdf)
- *The two-level lambda-calculus.*
Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science**, volume 246, pages 107&ndash;129, 2009.
[PDF](./gabbay-two-level-2009.pdf)
- *Permissive nominal terms and their unification.*
Gilles Dowek, Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Presented at the 24th Convegno Italiano di Logica Computazionale (CILC)**, 2009.
[PDF](./dowek-permissive-2009.pdf)
- *Semantic nominal terms.*
Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Presented at the 2nd International Workshop on the Theory and Applications of Abstraction, Substitution and Naming (TAASN)**, 2009.
[PDF](./gabbay-semantic-2009.pdf)
- *One-and-a-half level terms: Curry-Howard for incomplete derivations.*
Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Logic, Language, Information and Computation (WoLLIC)**, pages 179&ndash;193, 2008.
[PDF](./gabbay-one-2008.pdf)

# Formal developments

- *The lambda-mu calculus.*
Cristina Matache, Victor B. F. Gomes, and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Archive of Formal Proofs**, 2017.
- *A framework for establishing Strong Eventual Consistency for Conflict-free Replicated Datatypes.*
Victor B. F. Gomes, Martin Kleppmann, Dominic P. Mulligan, and Alastair R. Beresford.
**Archive of Formal Proofs**, 2017.

# Thesis

- *Extensions of nominal terms*.
Dominic P. Mulligan, PhD thesis, **Heriot-Watt University**, 2011.
[PDF](./mulligan-extensions-2011.pdf)

# Posters

- *Certified complexity.*
Roberto Amadio, Andrea Asperti, Nicolas Ayache, Brian Campbell, Dominic P. Mulligan, Randy Pollack, Yann Regis-Giannas, Claudio Sacerdoti Coen and Ian Stark.
**Presented at the EU Future and Emerging Technologies Exhibition**, 2011. 
[PDF](./amadio-certified-poster-2011.svg)

# Drafts, technical reports, and manuscripts

- *Private delegated computations using strong isolation.*
Mathias Brossard, Guilhem Bryant, Basma El Gaabouri, Xinxin Fan, Alexandre Ferreira, Edmund Grimley-Evans, Christopher Haster, Evan Johnson, Derek Miller, Fan Mo, Dominic P. Mulligan, Nick Spinale, Eric van Hensbergen, Hugo J. M. Vincent, Shale Xiong.
Arm Research technical report, 2022.
[PDF](./brossard-private-2022.pdf)
- *Dijkstra’s algorithm without the distributivity axiom: a proof of correctness in Agda.*
Leonhard D. Markert and Dominic P. Mulligan, 2016.
[PDF](./markhert-dijkstra-2016.pdf)
- *Mosquito: an implementation of higher-order logic (rough diamond).*
Dominic P. Mulligan, 2013.
[PDF](./mulligan-mosquito-2013.pdf)
- *Permissive nominal terms.*
Gilles Dowek, Murdoch J. Gabbay, and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**INRIA technical report 6682**, 2008.
[PDF](./dowek-permissive-2008.pdf)

Commit message:

homepage: added TETCSI and TYPES 2022 post-proceedings acceptance notices

content/publications/index.md, after:

---
title: "Publications"
date: 2020-07-02T13:14:41+01:00
draft: false
---

Click [here](https://dblp2.uni-trier.de/pers/hd/m/Mulligan:Dominic_P=) for my DBLP entry and [here](https://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user=LI9Nv6UAAAAJ&hl=en) for my Google Scholar entry.

# Journals

- *Private delegated computations using strong isolation*.
Accepted in ***IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computer Science**, 2023.
To appear.
[PDF](./bryant-private-2023.pdf)
- *A highly-available move operation for replicated trees*.
Martin Kleppmann, Dominic P. Mulligan, Victor Gomes, and Alastair Beresford.
**IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems**, volume 33, issue 7, pages 1711&ndash;1734, 2021.
[PDF](./kleppmann-highly-available-2021.pdf)
- *Permissive nominal terms and their unification: an infinite, coinfinite approach to nominal techniques.*
Gilles Dowek, Murdoch J. Gabbay, and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Logic Journal of the Interest Group in Pure Logic**, volume 18, issue 6, pages 769&ndash;822, 2011.
[PDF](./dowek-permissive-2011.pdf)
- *Curry-Howard for incomplete first-order logic derivations using one-and-a-half level terms.*
Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Journal of Information and Computation, volume 208**, issue 3, pages 230&ndash;258, 2010.
[PDF](./gabbay-one-2009.pdf)

# Conferences and workshops

- *All watched over by machines of loving grace*.
Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Accepted into the TYPES 2022 post-proceedings**, 2023.
[PDF](./mulligan-all-2023.pdf)
- *A verification methodology for Arm Confidential Computing Architecture, from a secure specification to safe implementations*.
Anthony C. J. Fox, Gareth Stockwell, Shale Xiong, Hanno Becker, Dominic P. Mulligan, Gustavo Petri, and Nathan Chong.
**Accepted at OOPSLA/SPLASH**, 2023.
[PDF](./fox-verification-2023.pdf)
- *Scalable assurance via verifiable hardware-software contracts.*
Yao Hsiao, Dominic P. Mulligan, Nikos Nikoleris, Gustavo Petri, Caroline Trippel.
**Accepted at the 1st Workshop on Open-source Computer Architecture Research (OSCAR)**, 2022.
[PDF](./hsiao-scalable-2022.pdf)
- *The Supervisionary proof-checking kernel: or, a work-in-progress towards proof-generating code.*
Dominic P. Mulligan, Nick Spinale.
**Accepted at the 6th Workshop on Principles of Secure Compilation (PriSC)**, 2022.
[PDF](./mulligan-supervisionary-2022.pdf)
- *Synthesizing formal models of hardware from RTL for efficient verification of memory model implementations.*
Yao Hsiao, Dominic P. Mulligan, Nikos Nikoleris, Gustavo Petri, and Caroline Trippel.
**Accepted at the 54th IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO)**, 2021.
[PDF](./hsiao-synthesizing-2021.pdf)
- *Seeds of SEED: Confidential Computing---a brave new world (invited industry paper).*
Dominic P. Mulligan, Gustavo Petri, Nick Spinale, Gareth Stockwell, and Hugo J. M. Vincent.
**Accepted at the IEEE International Symposium on Secure and Private Execution Environment Design (SEED)**, 2021.
[PDF](./mulligan-confidential-2021.pdf)
- *Interleaving anomalies in collaborative text editors.*
Martin Kleppmann, Victor B. F. Gomes, Dominic P. Mulligan, and Alastair R. Beresford.
**Proceedings of the 6th Workshop on the Principles and Practice of Consistency for Distributed Data (PaPoC)**, 2019.
[PDF](./kleppmann-interleaving-2019.pdf)
- *Programming and proving with classical types.*
Cristina Matache, Victor B. F. Gomes, and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Proceedings of the 15th Asian Symposium on Programming Languages and Systems (APLAS)**, pages 215&ndash;234, 2017.
[PDF](./matache-programming-2017.pdf)
- *Verifying Strong Eventual Consitency in distributed systems.*
Victor B. F. Gomes, Martin Kleppmann, Dominic P. Mulligan, and Alastair R. Beresford.
**Proceedings of PACMPL/OOPSLA**, 109:1&ndash;109:28, 2017.
*Distinguished paper award.*
*Distinguished artefact award.*
[PDF](./gomes-verifying-2017.pdf)
- *The missing link: explaining ELF static linking, semantically.*
Stephen Kell, Dominic P. Mulligan, and Peter Sewell.
**Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN International Conference on Object Oriented Programming, Systems, Languages, and Applications (OOPSLA/SPLASH)**, pages 607&ndash;623, 2016.
[PDF](./kell-missing-2016.pdf)
- *An integrated concurrency and core-ISA architectural envelope definition, and test oracle, for IBM POWER multiprocessors.*
Kathryn Gray, Gabriel Kerneis, Dominic P. Mulligan, Christopher Pulte, Susmit Sarkar and Peter Sewell.
**Proceedings of the 48th Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO 48)**, pages 635&ndash;646, 2015.
[PDF](gray-integrated-2015.pdf)
- *Lem: reusable engineering of real world semantics.*
Dominic P. Mulligan, Scott Owens, Kathryn E. Gray, Tom Ridge, and Peter Sewell.
**Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Functional Programming (ICFP)**, pages 175&ndash;188, 2014.
[PDF](./mulligan-lem-2014.pdf)
- *Certified Complexity (CerCo).*
Roberto M. Amadio, Nicolas Ayache, Francois Bobot, Jaap P. Boender, Brian Campbell, Ilias Garnier, Antoine Madet, James McKinna, Dominic P. Mulligan, Mauro Piccolo, Randy Pollack, Yann Régis-Gianas, Claudio Sacerdoti Coen, Ian Stark, and Paolo Tranquilli. **Proceedings of the 3rd International Workshop on Foundational and Practical Aspects of Resource Analysis (FOPARA)**, pages 1&ndash;18, 2013.
[PDF](./amadio-certified-2013.pdf)
- *On the correctness of an assembler for the MCS-51 microprocessor.*
Dominic P. Mulligan and Claudio Sacerdoti Coen.
**Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Certified Proofs and Programs (CPP)**, pages 43&ndash;59, 2012.
[PDF](./mulligan-correctness-2012.pdf)
- *Nominal Henkin Semantics: simply typed lambda-calculus in Nominal Sets.*
Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Proceedings of the 6th International Workshop on Logical Frameworks and Meta-languages: Theory and Practice (LFMTP)**, pages 58&ndash;75, 2011.
[PDF](./gabbay-nominal-2011.pdf)
- *Universal algebra over lambda-terms and nominal terms: the connection in logic between nominal techniques and higher-order variables.*
Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Logical Frameworks and Meta-languages: Theory and Practice (LFMTP)**, pages 64&ndash;73, 2009.
[PDF](./gabbay-universal-2009.pdf)
- *The two-level lambda-calculus.*
Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science**, volume 246, pages 107&ndash;129, 2009.
[PDF](./gabbay-two-level-2009.pdf)
- *Permissive nominal terms and their unification.*
Gilles Dowek, Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Presented at the 24th Convegno Italiano di Logica Computazionale (CILC)**, 2009.
[PDF](./dowek-permissive-2009.pdf)
- *Semantic nominal terms.*
Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Presented at the 2nd International Workshop on the Theory and Applications of Abstraction, Substitution and Naming (TAASN)**, 2009.
[PDF](./gabbay-semantic-2009.pdf)
- *One-and-a-half level terms: Curry-Howard for incomplete derivations.*
Murdoch J. Gabbay and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Logic, Language, Information and Computation (WoLLIC)**, pages 179&ndash;193, 2008.
[PDF](./gabbay-one-2008.pdf)

# Formal developments

- *The lambda-mu calculus.*
Cristina Matache, Victor B. F. Gomes, and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**Archive of Formal Proofs**, 2017.
- *A framework for establishing Strong Eventual Consistency for Conflict-free Replicated Datatypes.*
Victor B. F. Gomes, Martin Kleppmann, Dominic P. Mulligan, and Alastair R. Beresford.
**Archive of Formal Proofs**, 2017.

# Thesis

- *Extensions of nominal terms*.
Dominic P. Mulligan, PhD thesis, **Heriot-Watt University**, 2011.
[PDF](./mulligan-extensions-2011.pdf)

# Posters

- *Certified complexity.*
Roberto Amadio, Andrea Asperti, Nicolas Ayache, Brian Campbell, Dominic P. Mulligan, Randy Pollack, Yann Regis-Giannas, Claudio Sacerdoti Coen and Ian Stark.
**Presented at the EU Future and Emerging Technologies Exhibition**, 2011. 
[PDF](./amadio-certified-poster-2011.svg)

# Drafts, technical reports, and manuscripts

- *Private delegated computations using strong isolation.*
Mathias Brossard, Guilhem Bryant, Basma El Gaabouri, Xinxin Fan, Alexandre Ferreira, Edmund Grimley-Evans, Christopher Haster, Evan Johnson, Derek Miller, Fan Mo, Dominic P. Mulligan, Nick Spinale, Eric van Hensbergen, Hugo J. M. Vincent, Shale Xiong.
Arm Research technical report, 2022.
[PDF](./brossard-private-2022.pdf)
- *Dijkstra’s algorithm without the distributivity axiom: a proof of correctness in Agda.*
Leonhard D. Markert and Dominic P. Mulligan, 2016.
[PDF](./markhert-dijkstra-2016.pdf)
- *Mosquito: an implementation of higher-order logic (rough diamond).*
Dominic P. Mulligan, 2013.
[PDF](./mulligan-mosquito-2013.pdf)
- *Permissive nominal terms.*
Gilles Dowek, Murdoch J. Gabbay, and Dominic P. Mulligan.
**INRIA technical report 6682**, 2008.
[PDF](./dowek-permissive-2008.pdf)
